Back in the previous section, we used a
slice to extract all the delimiters
from a list of numbers. I'm going to
start by reviewing that code, and I've
called this file strings2.py and
I've grabbed that code from that previous
section and you can see it on the screen
there. What I have done, though, is deleted
the first few lines of code from the
file. We used a slice that started at
position 1, which is the first comma, then
extracted every fourth character until
it reached the end of the string. That
worked but it does rely on there being
three digits in each of the numbers,
after the first one. That's probably fine
if the data came from another computer
program, but it's not something we can
rely on if the user's typing in those
numbers. In that case, we should examine
each character in the number string to
check if it's a digit or not. As you saw
in the previous video, a for loop can be
used to do that. What we're going to do
here is iterate over numbers and append
anything that isn't a digit to the
separators string. Once we've seen the
code working, we'll step through it with
a debugger so you can see what it's
doing. The first step is to initialise
our separators variable. That's something
that causes a lot of confusion, and I'm going
to spend a minute discussing it, once
we've seen the code working. So I'm going
to change this to become equal to an
empty string, and I'm gonna come down here
and add some code, specifically starting
on line 4; for char in number
colon if not char.isnumeric and the
parentheses are added automatically,
colon separators equals separators plus
char. We're going to leave the code on line
8 that prints the separators and the
rest of the file is going to remain as
it was. Alright so I've used another
one of the string methods here on line
5. I provided a link to the string
methods earlier in this section and we'll
be looking at a few of them in our
examples. isnumeric will return True if
the character is a number, and False
otherwise. We want to add things that
aren't a digit, which is why the condition
becomes if not char.isnumeric
Alright so I'm going to run the
program to make sure that it works.
So the first thing we get printed out is
the string containing all the separators.
Now that was printed by the code on line
8. I'm just going to move this down so we
can see a bit more code. These strings
created by our for loop on lines 4
through 6. Now we use that string of
separators on line 10 to get the
individual numbers. Once again, don't
worry about the lines 10 and 11 at the
moment, you'll learn all about them later.
At the moment, we're just using them to
show why we want to extract all the
separators from number. Alright so our
program works, but how? What we'll do is
we'll set a breakpoint on the for loop,
line 4 over here, and let's run the program in the debugger.
In the variables pane we can see the value of number.
So it's a string containing 7 numbers, separated by
various separated characters. Below that
we can see that the variable separators
is currently bound to an empty string.
Two quotes with nothing between them is
an empty string. As I said, I'll come back
to that later. Now when I step over the
code, which I'll do now, you can see that
the variable char gets the first
character from the string. That's the
digit 9. We're about to test if it's a
digit, so I'm going to step over line 5
to do that. The character 9 does
represent a number so isnumeric returns
True. We're checking for not isnumeric,
which is False, so therefore the code on
line 6 is skipped. Alright so we're
back now on line 4. I'm gonna step over
again. char now gets the next character from
number which is a comma, as you can see.
A comma obviously doesn't represent a
number and each numeric should return
False. Not False is True and we should
get line 6 executed this time. Let's step
over to check that, and that's good. Line
6 is about to be executed. When you're
using the debugger like this, always
spend time working out what's going to
happen before it does.
That'll really help you to learn how to read code
without ultimately having to run it in
the debugger. Ok separators is currently
an empty string. Line 6 will append the
value of char to it, which should result
in separators becoming a string
containing a comma. Let's step over and
see. In the variables pane, separators is
a comma. So we've seen how char is
getting each of the characters in turn
and we really don't need to keep watching
line 4. We've also said that line 6
is only executed when we get a character
that's not numeric. So it's line 6 that
we're really interested in here. We can
debug more efficiently by clearing the
breakpoint on line 4 and setting one
on line 6 instead, like so.
When we've done that, we can use the button that
looks like a typical video player icon,
a vertical bar on a triangle. That's this
button over here, resume program, and what
that will do is run our code at full
speed until it hits our breakpoint.
So I'm going to click that button now and the
debugger executes the code for the 2, 2
and 3 in number, and char now
contains a semicolon. That's obviously
not numeric and that's why we've got our
breakpoint hit on line 6. When I
execute that line, which I'll come over here
and step over, we can see that the
semicolon is appended to separators. In
the variables pane, separators now has
two characters; a comma and a semicolon.
Now it can be easier to see the values in
the editor pane. This IDE shows them in
grey, as you can see up there. At the end of
line 2 we've got the comma and the
semicolon. We've also got the current
value of char at the end of line 4.
Alright so I'm going to resume the program
again by clicking on the icon, and that
ran past the 3, 7 and 2.
char, as you can see, is now a colon, and line 6
will cause that to be appended to our
separator string when I step over, which
I'll do now. You can see the colon has
been added to separators now. Next we
should get a comma, the one before 7
7 5, so let's resume. It actually
forgot about the space there, you can see
that, obviously, we had a space in the
string which is non numeric. So we've hit
that, so therefore a space should be
added to our string if I step over which
I'll do now, and you can see the string,
the space rather, has been added to our
separators variable. If I come over now
and click on resume, next we should get a
comma and that's the one that's just
before the 775. Resume program, we've got  a comma
in char now. If I step over you can see
that's added to our separators variable,
and resume one more time. This time,
as the last one that we'll match, we
should get the semicolon which is before
the 807, and there's obviously no other
characters. I'll click on resume.
We've got the semicolon and step over
once more and that's been added to our
separators variable. The remaining three
characters at this point are all numeric,
and that means that we shouldn't get to
line 6 again and resuming the program,
which I'll do now, should cause it to run
through to the end. And you can see
that's been the case there. Now if you
want to use step over until the program
terminates instead of resume program,
that I used there, to be sure about what's
happening then go ahead. It's really
helpful to see each line being executed
when you're learning. As you can see there,
I pressed resume program. The program ended.
We click over to the console now, we can
see the output on screen. We've got our
separators printed out, followed by a
list containing the seven values in
number. So I'm going to stop the video
here but you might want to step through
the code a few more times, just to make
sure you understand what it's doing. And
as a reminder, don't worry about lines 10
and 11. They're quite advanced and won't
make much sense at this point in the course.
In the next video, we'll see how a
code can handle values that a user
types in. See you in the next video.